

AVI and Palettes
----------------


This is an overview of AVI's use of palettes: there are some small
complexities beyond this that are not generally significant.


Palette Sources
---------------

When playing on a palettised display, AVI must use a palette for
drawing the frames. It gets these palettes from one of these places:

	- from the AVI file header. Attached to the DIB header at the
start of an 8-bit file will be a colour table (an array of 4-byte
RGBQUAD values). The frame DIBs  will consist of indices into this
table. In addition, new palettes can appear throughout the movie
to be used for frames from that point onwards.

	- from the dither proc. If the movie is a higher colour
resolution, drawdib will dither it to the display colour resolution.
In the case of 8-bit displays, 16 and 24-bit videos will be dithered
to a standard 256-colour palette created  in drawdib\dith775.c which
has 7 levels of red and green and 5 levels of blue.

	- from the codec. If the video is a higher colour resolution
and being decompressed to 8-bit palettised, the codec will supply the
palette. for example, the Video 1 codec will decompress 16-bit CRAM
videos directly to 8-bit pal using the standard 7-7-5 palette (same
as the dither code's palette).

	- 4-bit displays will always use the 16-colour VGA palette.

In all of the cases, once we have a frame fully decompressed/dithered
and ready to draw, it is a DIB that consists of a series of indices
into one of these palettes.  We may also have:

	- A client palette: a palette handle can be sent us from the
client. This represents the palette used by the window we are playing
in. We need to draw using this palette to avoid redraws of the
surrounding window when playing in place. In this case we need to
deal with two palettes: the palette containing the colours actually
used in the DIBs (from the avi file or supplied by dither/codec), and
the palette we need to draw with, supplied by the client.

Using The Palette
-----------------

	We draw the frame using SetDIBitsToDevice (or possibly
StretchDIBits). This will interpret the DIB bits in one of two ways
depending on the fuColorUse flag (in fact there are more than two,
but we only use these)

DIB_PAL_INDICES:	this means that the bytes in the DIB are
indices directly into the system palette.

DIB_PAL_COLORS	the bytes in the DIB are indices into a colour table
supplied as the bmiColors field of the bitmapinfoheader supplied.
This colour table must contain indices into the logical palette
selected into the DC (the header including colour table, and the DC
are supplied as arguments).

The DIB_PAL_COLORS case is slower since GDI has to translate the DIB
bytes once using the bmiColors table, and then once again from the
logical palette of the DC to the system palette. However, since we
can't realistically change the DIB data, we can only use
DIB_PAL_INDICES if the system palette is the same as our palette,
which depends on the RealizePalette behaviour:


Realizing Palettes:
-------------------

Before drawing the DIB, we select the palette we want to draw with
into the DC and then call RealizePalette. This has one of two
behaviours:

- if we are the foreground app, RealizePalette assigns entries in the
system palette to contain the colours in our logical palette. The
system keeps some entries in the palette with standard colours in
(the first 10 and last 10 entries) - these are the 'static' colours;
it will allow us to use the remaining entries.

- if not, RealizePalette creates a mapping between our logical
palette and the nearest colours in the current system palette.

When a foreground app realizes a palette, it changes entries in the
system palette, and all other apps need to re-Realize their palettes
in order to get a mapping to the new system palette (unless they are
only using the default, static colours). Thus when we start playing a
video, all other palette-aware apps change colours (when the system
palette changes) and then redraw with the mapping to the new system
palette.


Support for DIB_PAL_INDICES.
---------------------------

Using DIB_PAL_INDICES is only possible if the system palette not only
contains all our colours, but in exactly the same order. To ensure
that this is possible, AVI palettes are generally created containing
the static colours as the first and last 10 colours, and
movie-specific colours in between. Thus when we are foreground and
realize the palette, the system palette will end up exactly the same
as the movie palette, and we can use DIB_PAL_INDICES with its
significant performance benefits.

Whenever the system palette changes, we compare all the colours in
the system palette with the colours in our DIBs. If the two colour
tables are the same, we know it is safe to use DIB_PAL_INDICES. If
not, then we use DIB_PAL_COLORS with a colour table. This colour
table maps the contents of the DIB to the logical palette: this is a
no-op, since the logical palette for our dc is the same as the DIB
palette. The real translation is being done between the logical
palette and the current system palette, and this is set up by GDI
when we issue a 'realizepalette' call.

Support for client Palettes
---------------------------

We are sometimes given a client palette to use (mplayer does this if
playing in place, in an app that is using a non-default palette). The
reason for this is to avoid the flash and re-draw of the client app
that would be necessary if we realized our palette and changed the
system palette. In this case, we select the client palette as our dc
palette, and we build a colour table that maps entries in our palette
to the nearest entry in the client palette. When we then draw - using
DIB_PAL_COLORS - GDI will use this colour table to translate between
the DIB palette and the DC's logical palette ( which is the client
app's palette), and then will translate between the logical palette
and the system palette (probably the same).

